
1. What is the purpose of the Java Garbage Collector?
   a) To allocate memory for objects
   b) To release memory occupied by unused objects
   c) To optimize code execution
   d) To manage database connections
Answer=b

2. Which part of the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) is responsible for garbage collection?
   a) Class Loader
   b) JVM Compiler
   c) Runtime Data Area
   d) Bytecode Verifier
Answer=c
3. How does the Garbage Collector determine if an object is eligible for garbage collection?
   a) By checking if the object is reachable
   b) By examining the object's reference count
   c) By the size of the object
   d) By the object's creation time
Answer=a
4. Which of the following are Java Garbage Collection algorithms?
   a) Stack-based algorithm
   b) Mark-and-Sweep
   c) Bubble Sort
   d) Depth-First Search
Answer=a
5. In Java, which part of the memory is managed by the Garbage Collector?
   a) Stack
   b) Heap
   c) Cache
   d) Register
Answer=b
6. Which of the following is not a generation in the generational garbage collection model?
   a) Young Generation
   b) Old Generation
   c) Infant Generation
   d) Permanent Generation
Answer=c
7. What is a "stop-the-world" event in the context of Garbage Collection?
   a) A situation where the Garbage Collector runs concurrently with the application
   b) A situation where the application is paused while Garbage Collection is performed
   c) A situation where an object is pinned in memory
   d) A situation where Garbage Collection never occurs
Answer=b
8. What is the purpose of the "System.gc()" method in Java?
   a) To explicitly trigger garbage collection
   b) To increase memory allocation for the JVM
   c) To reduce the memory footprint of an application
   d) To start a new JVM instance
Answer=a
9. Which garbage collection algorithm is typically used for the Young Generation in the JVM?
   a) Mark-and-Sweep
   b) Generational Garbage Collection
   c) Parallel Garbage Collection
   d) Concurrent Garbage Collection
Answer=a
10. In the context of Garbage Collection, what is the PermGen (Permanent Generation) used for?
    a) Storing live objects
    b) Storing the heap
    c) Storing class metadata, such as classes and methods
    d) Managing thread pools

Answer=a
Subjective Questions:

11. Why Garbage Collection is necessary in Java?
Answer=Garbage Collection is very necessary to release memory occupied by unused objects in the Heap memory.


12. What is the drawback to Garbage Collection?
Answer =Garbage Collection is very costly process because it takes a i little time to collect the unused objects in the Heap memory .
13. What do you mean by mark-and-sweep?
Answer=Garbage Collection usees the mark-and-sweep to find the unused objects and mark them and the move it to S0 or S1 which is empty.
14. What is the difference between Heap and Stack in Java?
Answer=Heap is  storing the refrence type and stack stors value type.
15. Write a Stack Program.
Answer=
public class Stack{
	public static void main(String[] args){
	
	}
}
abstract class Stack{
	ArrayList<elements>list=new ArrayList<>();

















